# cs184-final-project

Bilal Syed | Nishan D’Souza 
Scott Sunarto | Hans Zhang
Blur Motion: Simulating Motion in between Frames

**Summary**: 

We are interested in reimagining stop motion with less frames by simulating blurs the trajectory of movement in between frames. For example, if there is an image of an individual at one end of a room, and then another image with that person at the other end of the room, our resulting animation will simulate the person’s movement through the room as a blurred motion. This concept will result in very interesting and sci-fi like animations of individuals or objects flitting through a room rather than using a large amount of frames to simulate motion as stop motion does. 

**Problem Description**:

We are very interested in how motion is presented in films, animated movies, and through photography and how that interaction can be reimagined in a visual sense, to add more texture to the visual art of capturing motion. We are trying to get the ball rolling for solving the problem of how tedious curating stop motion projects are today with the need for miniscule differences in between shots in order for the motion to look seamless. We are going about this by trying to minimize less important intermediate frames by simulating what those frames would like based on a more important start date and an equally important end state (states we would use to extrapolate blurred simulations of motion in between). From an artistic point of view, this concept would add a lot of depth to genres that tend to blend the lines between reality and fantasy by creating seemingly flitting shadows of movement, adding a whole new dimension to the viewing experience of an animated short. All in all, this blurred motion concept would make curating stop motion a lot more efficient, and would add visual depth in an intriguing way when it comes to splicing images together to form a short. 

**Goals and Deliverables**:

What we plan to deliver is the ability to input a small amount of pictures into our software which will then output a short “stop” motion animation of the three frames sequentially rendering with simulated in-between frames or motion. The in-between frames is the unique aspect of what we’re providing, and we hope to be able to make this blurred moment as aesthetically pleasing as possible. We are focused on making this blurred motion appear as seamless as possible, by optimizing on minimizing the differences between the beginning and end states with intermediate states that intuitively make sense (at a high level, if the object in the first frame is at position (1, 0, 0) and the object in the next frame is at (5, 0, 0), we would want to simulate intermediate object pixels at (3, 0, 0) rather than an inaccurate (0, 3, 3)). We want our baseline animation to intuitively make sense in terms of the intermediate trajectories of frames based on their end destination (the next true frame) and we want this blurred motion to be aesthetically pleasing, perhaps as a weighted sum color wise of the object’s pixels and colors in the initial frame. 
What we hope to achieve in addition to our baseline blurred shorts is the ability to interact with the intermediate frames by perhaps changing the color schemes of the blurs or providing interesting texture options to them both via an interactive user interface. This would add further visual dimensionality to our simulations and would provide an even broader set of possibilities one could work with when forming interesting animations of themselves or others. This idea essentially expands the creative and impressionist palette of what we plan to deliver with our base case functionality. 
We will measure the performance of our system based on how intuitive the blurs turn out in terms of acting as apparent intermediate steps between state A and B for example, and how clean they turn out. The first metric will be measured by the positions of our intermediate frames with respect to the origin the frame was working away from and the destination to which they are going. The second metric will be measured by how much noise the frames add to the overall image versus how smooth the movement truly turns out. This second metric is more subjective, but we hope to be able to smooth it out by comparing the intermediate frames' pixel color values to those surrounding them and to those of the original object they are supposed to be based on. Ultimately, we hope to be able to answer the question of how seamless simulating motion can be in order to both improve the efficiency and bolster the aesthetics of the dying art of stop-motion.

**Schedule**:

Our schedule is broken up into a four week plan since that is how much time there is until the final presentation. The first week will be broken up into initially determining to what lengths we can take our project from a feasibility standpoint, and the second half of the week will consist of crowdsourcing tools and ideating our blurred motion algorithms based on concepts we learned in class. Our second week is where we will start developing out a simple engine to take in three images and produce a blurred motion animation that connects the three, perhaps at first with less simulated frames than the end product; and so, at this stage our end animated short will still appear to be in discrete steps which is fine since we will be focused on correcting the intermediate frames trajectories and fluid nature aesthetically. During the third week since we will have already gotten the simulated frames’ to be in the right path and simulated appropriately, we will now increase the amount of simulated frames in between true frames in order to produce our ideal end product: a clean blurred motion between captured shots. During the fourth week our barebones product will be complete, and now we will be hoping to glamorize our system with a functional and interactive UI that allows one to toggle the color schemes and textures of the blurred motion in between shots (by texture, we mean the reflectance properties or the surface properties of the pixels in between the shots). By this point, our project will hopefully be complete or will have at least satisfied our baseline goals, and we will present the end product that seeks to reimagine stop-motion.  

**Resources**:

The inspiration for this project comes from the HDR picture idea, so we plan on starting by referencing that paper and understanding how they manipulate images. There shouldn’t be much skeleton/existing code that we need to draw from in order to scaffold this project. We will definitely end up using some form of OpenGL library to edit and create images pixel by pixel, but after that our external library usage will probably be light.


